in this video,
we're going to speak about date filters in pivot tables,
says you can see here.
We've got our pivot table where we have the order date on the world section and the summer
sales amount on the Submission of Value Section.
And we do have some built in options in pivot tables in order to filter dates.
So free click here on this arrow.
We confortable filter dates by checking or un checking dates.
So when we uncheck the dates,
we filter them off,
and when we have them checked,
then they will appear on our list of dates.
The second thing is that we can go toe date filters here and filter using these built in
options.
So first option here,
for examples,
equals so filtering for the date to be equal to a certain dates of,
for example,
the sixth of January 2019 and is against here.
We do have a date here on the list sick Virginia 2019 who managed to filter for that
particular date,
or press control and Z here to a movement filter.
And we do have some other filters.
So before certain dates,
after a certain date.
And this one here is between two dates.
So you give it to dates here and you can filter between these two dates.
And this includes the two dates as well that you will filter between them.
So if one of your boundary dates here is on the list,
it will appear.
And if we go again here to the date filters,
would you have tomorrow,
today and yesterday.
So these are dynamic filters,
and these filters will update every day.
So,
for example,
a few filter for tomorrow and then you open this Excel workbook tomorrow after you've saved
the filter as tomorrow,
it will filter for the date for after tomorrow.
So this is interactive.
According to today,
state what today's date is and it will filter for tomorrow every day.
And same goes for today,
yesterday,
next week,
this week and last week.
So these air also dynamic.
So the sense what today's date is and they check what this week is and they will give you
next week as well.
And this week and last week Now,
let me know something about next week,
this week and last week,
the assume that the week starts on a Sunday.
So what if the week starts on a Monday or Tuesday or Friday?
What do we do if we need to apply such a filter?
Well,
address that shortly,
but let's just school through the other filters and then we'll answer that question.
So here we've got next month this month last month.
I think they are self explanatory.
They filter for this month or next month or last month,
and the month starts from the first of the month till the under the month.
Nothing unusual here.
We've got next quarter this quarter and last quarter,
so we will filter for this quarter or next,
whether or last quarter and these air calendar quarters and have explained how to do kind
of the quarter calculations using four meters in previous videos.
And I think this is very easy next year,
this year and last year.
Also,
we're filter for this year or next year or last year.
It's the calendar year,
and this explains itself as well.
Now there is the year to date filter,
so this will filter for the dates for the current year,
year to date.
So far,
apply this filter were currently in 2019.
So this should show only dates in 2019 and show you the Grendel for 2090.
However,
if you do this filter on the 31st of December 2000 and 18 and then you save the workbook
and you open it on the 10th of January 2019 it will actually only show you the dates in
Whilst when you did it on the 31st of December 2018 it showed you the dates for 2018.
So this is interactive as well.
It will sends which day is today in which year were at,
and it will show you the dates for the year we're currently at.
Now let's clear the filter and let's check the other options here.
So here we have old dates in the period.
So here,
if you click on quarter one,
this will show you all the dates are in quarter one,
regardless of the year.
So if you click on that,
you'll see her.
They will show the states in quarter one in 2018.
In 2019 which of the years in our data set because here,
this will filter for quarter one.
If you go again here old,
it's in the period.
So this one will show you the dates in certain month regardless of the year.
Right?
So if you choose,
February will show you dates in February in both 18 4019 and same goes for the rest of the
months.
There is also the option to do a custom filter here.
So if I click on custom filter you could do the filter is equal to a certain day.
Does not equal a certain date is before a certain date is before equal toe,
so less than or equal to a certain date is after is greater than a certain date is after
equal to a certain date that's greater than equal to a certain date,
is between two dates and is not between two dates,
and he selected dates here using this calendar.
Now let me answer the question here for what if we want to starting day the week to be a
day other than Sunday,
because when we filter for this week or last week or next week,
the Excel pivot table assumes that the week starts from Sunday.
So what if we want the week to start on Monday?
There's a work around to do well.
There is a work around to do that,
but we need to use formulas.
So here,
first of all,
we need to calculate the week number and to tackle the weak number,
we can use the week numb function here and the week.
NAM accepts two arguments.
First argument is the date and the return type.
Here is basically which day of the week the week begins at what if we want the week to
begin on Monday and to know this week or next week or last week,
depending on a week starting on Monday.
So first of all will press enter here,
and this will basically give us the week number off that particular week.
If we drag the four minute down,
you can see her were able to calculate the week number.
Now if we need to filter forward last week,
but this week starts on Monday,
then we'll create a formula for that and the formula is basically that this week number is
equal to the week numb of today.
This is the today function which will give us today state and well selected.
The start of the week is Monday minus one.
So what does this for me to do?
It will give us a tour false value on whether this week number is equal to the week number
off today minus one.
So this means that the week number four last week.
So if you press enter here,
it will give us false on most of the cells.
But on some of the cells that will give us true Because here,
for example,
the date is 26th of January 2019.
Today is the first of February,
So this is on the week of last week.
So if you check here our calendar,
you can see her.
Today is a Friday and this week started on 28th of January.
So the 26th of January was on the week off last week,
right?
This is why it gives us a true here and now we can simply copy our pivot table here and
just had a filter here and now we can simply first of all go to a private table,
refresh it,
and then we can copy our pivot table and put a filter here for last week Monday.
So if you put that on the filters and filter for true,
you can see her.
We've been able to filter for Lost Weeks dates for a week,
starting on a Monday,
and it's always useful to think about filters as a logical comparison that yields a true or
false.
So this way you can create any kind of filter that you would like on pivot tables just
created in the formulas,
and then just create a four minute that use a tour,
false value or one or zero or any group of values,
and then put it in the filter's area and then filter for a certain value.
And you can always think about a filter as a logical operation that yields to or false.
And using this principle,
you can create any filter that you would like on a pivot table.
Just great,
a formula that yields one or more values and then filter for one or more values on your
pivot tables.
Good guys.
So that's it for filtering by dates.
Thank you so much for watching this video and I'll see you on the next one